# Music By Numbers #

## Introduction ##
This script will ultimately allow users to generate the factors of natural
numbers, manipulate these factors in various ways, map the factors to
pitches, and output these values into text files, audio output, and audio
files.

The intent of this project is to serve as a sandbox for the exploration of
concepts in generative sound.

## Design Process & Decisions ##

First, in order to extract music from the the factors of natural numbers,
I had to be able to factor numbers. What is a factor? The number a is a
factor of b when b / a leaves no remainder. In other words, b % a must be
zero. First, I had to write a function ("list_factors") to create a nested
list of the factors up to a given number.

Sometimes, it's nice to be able to have a clean way to print the factors of
numbers up to a given number. The "list_to_table" function takes a list and
returns it as a table-formatted string.

At first, I chose to ignore 0 and 1, for the obvious reason that they have
no factors. Additionally, I chose to ignore 1 as a factor of numbers,
because including it would mean the pitch represented by a value of one
would play for every set of factors. 2 is the first "interesting" factor
because only every other number has a factor of 2 (is even). But using
the raw factors also means that we would never hear the root of the scale.
So, I needed a way ("shift_factors") to shift the values of factors up or
down. That way, sets of factors can be shifted to include the root and other
pitches on the scale. This also allows one to explore the factors with other
shifts.

Next, the output from these functions is run through another modulo filter
which maps the factors to the number of "scale" degrees to be included in the
final output. This determines the "width" of the "keyboard" on which the
sounds are played in relation to the scale to which the values are assigned.
Sounds that are outside of the range are mapped to their remainders. The
factors, which at this point are no longer factors so much as values, are also
sorted from least to greatest and any duplicates removed, as these sets of
values are simply composited into chords.



## Questions Raised ##

1. Will all possible chords be generated? If so, at what rate will new
	chords be generated by factors of natural numbers?
1. Will using mathematical expressions (linear, polynomial, exponential) to do
	things like shift factors and map them to scales create unique new
	possibilities?
1. In a similar manner, is it possible to use modulo and numbers (or
	mathematical expressions) to generate rhythms? If so, can all rhythms be
	generated in such a fashion?

## Insights & Conjectures ##

1. Every prime number consists of a single note. Thus, the sequence of primes
	modulates through the scale in a scale-wise fashion.
1. Every composite number will generate a unique chord when the mapping is as 
	large as the set of factors.
1. Every square of a prime will generate a unique interval when the mapping
	is as large as the set of factors.
1. Every semiprime (only two prime factors) number that is not a square will 
	generate a unique triad when the mapping is as large as the set of factors.
1. Every sphenic number will generate a unique tetrad when the mapping is as large
	as the set of factors.
1. Every number with n unique factors (not including 1) will produce a unique
	"n-ad" when the mappig is as large as the set of factors.

## Idle Musings ##

I've made a few observations and conjectures which seem pretty interesting to me.
Of course, I'm only exploring complete factorization. A good mathematician could
probably say some interesting things about which rules hold true for complete
factorization, which for prime factorization, and why. Overall, I think that prime
factorization will be more limited, in a combinatorial sense, and overall probably
more interesting. But I guess that just means I already have another project in mind.

Duration and rhythm will also be fun to explore.

I pretty strongly suspect that an infinite set of factors on an infinite mapping
will produce every possible combination of notes up to a certain n-ad. How the n
relates to the size of the set of factors, and how the system behaves with mappings
smaller than n are both things I think I can only fully investigate with the aid of
computation, hence this project.

Once I've explored how these numbers become sound when treated this way, by these
systems, I should be able to describe the rules that govern which kinds of sound a
given number produces within a given system (i.e. which numbers produce intervals?
Triads? Tritones? Major triads? Perfect fifths?). Then, each system (set of mapping-
scale relationships) becomes just one possible grammar for generating sound (and
hopefully music).

There is an ulterior motive: in each system, every integer becomes a description,
based on its factors, of a particular chord or note. Every note or chord is
identified by that integer value. That alone is cool - a single number to describe
any (I hope) note or chord in a given scale, key, or modality?

I should then be able to work backwards, using an integer to encode every possible
sound within a given context. Then, who knows? Maybe I can discover algorithms
that output melodies? A scale is easy: how high? Compute primes to that number. How
about the cycle of fifths? Probably also easy if a chromatic mapping was used. Chord
progressions? Well, triads in I-IV-I-V-I progression shouldn't be that hard, once
they're mapped to numbers. And maybe there's an underlying numerical relationship
between the numbers that encode their values? 

Not to mention, the ability to explore the "sounds" of mathematical expressions.
What does the Fibonacci sequence sound like in C Major? In a Dorian mode? How about
square numbers? The output of a polynomial? What do derivatives of functions sound
like when played against the function itself?

Then maybe we're in the realm of multidimensional analysis based on sound/music?
Imagine "graphing" 5-dimensionally by assigning a different instrument to each
dimension? 

Then rhythm can be explored the same way. Maybe every person can suddenly compute
their own music based on a random seed and picking a key they like? Who knows?

I've often wondered if parametric design will destroy something like music - if
everyone can have generated music that's exactly to their taste, will we have any
need to listen to each other?
